{"names":["potassium citrate","extract","pyridoxine hydrochloride","natural and artificial flavors","carbonated water","cyanocobalamine.","guarana seed","citric acid","high fructose","folic acid","and potassium sorbate","inositol","caramel color","corn syrup","sucralose","caffeine","sodium benzoate","preservatives","taurine","sodium citrate"],"descriptions":["Potassium citrate (also known as tripotassium citrate) is a potassium salt of citric acid with the molecular formula K3C6H5O7. It is a white, hygroscopic crystalline powder. It is odorless with a saline taste. It contains 38.28% potassium by mass. In the monohydrate form it is highly hygroscopic and deliquescent.","An extract is a substance made by extracting a part of a raw material, often by using a solvent such as ethanol or water. Extracts may be sold as tinctures or in powder form.","Pyridoxine, also known as vitamin B6 and pyridoxol, is a form of vitamin B6 found commonly in food and used as dietary supplement.[1] As a supplement it is used to treat and prevent pyridoxine deficiency, sideroblastic anaemia, pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy, certain metabolic disorders, problems from isoniazid, and certain types of mushroom poisoning.[3][1] It is used by mouth or by injection.[3]","Flavor (American English) or flavour (British English; see spelling differences) is the sensory impression of food or other substance, and is determined primarily by the chemical senses of taste and smell. The \"trigeminal senses\", which detect chemical irritants in the mouth and throat, as well as temperature and texture, are also important to the overall gestalt of flavor perception. The flavor of the food, as such, can be altered with natural or artificial flavorants which affect these senses.","Carbonated water (also known as club soda, soda water, sparkling water, seltzer water, bubbly water, or fizzy water) is water into which carbon dioxide gas under pressure has been dissolved. Some of these have additives, such as sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate or similar, but seltzer water is almost always composed of water and carbon dioxide with no other additives. This process, known as carbonation, is a process that causes the water to become effervescent. Most carbonated water is sold in ready to drink bottles as carbonated beverages such as soft drinks. However, it can also be prepared at home with soda makers.","Cyanocobalamin is a synthetic form of vitamin B 12. Vitamin B 12 is the \"generic descriptor\" name for any vitamers of vitamin B 12. Because humans and animals can convert cyanocobalamin to any one of the active vitamin B 12 compounds,[1] by definition this makes cyanocobalamin itself a form (or vitamer) of B 12.","Guarana (/ɡwəˈrɑːnə/ from the Portuguese guaraná [ɡwaɾɐˈna]), Paullinia cupana, syn. P. crysan, P. sorbilis) is a climbing plant in the maple family, Sapindaceae, native to the Amazon basin and especially common in Brazil. Guarana features large leaves and clusters of flowers, and is best known for the seeds from its fruit, which are about the size of a coffee bean. As a dietary supplement, guarana is an effective stimulant:[1] its seeds contain about twice the concentration of caffeine found in coffee seeds (about 2\u20134.5% caffeine in guarana seeds compared to 1\u20132% for coffee seeds).[2]","Citric acid is a weak organic tricarboxylic acid having the chemical formula C6H8O7. It occurs naturally in citrus fruits. In biochemistry, it is an intermediate in the citric acid cycle, which occurs in the metabolism of all aerobic organisms.","HFCS is composed of 76% carbohydrates and 24% water, containing no fat, no protein, and no essential nutrients in significant amounts (table). In a 100 gram serving, it supplies 281 Calories, whereas in one tablespoon of 19 grams, it supplies 53 Calories (table link).","Folate, forms of which are known as folic acid and vitamin B9, is one of the B vitamins.[4] The recommended daily intake of folate for US residents is 400 micrograms from foods or dietary supplements.[6] Folic acid is the form of folate used to treat anemia caused by folic acid deficiency.[4] Folic acid is also used as a supplement by women during pregnancy to prevent neural tube defects in the baby.[4][7] Low levels in early pregnancy are believed to be the cause of more than half of babies born with neural tube defects.[8] More than 50 countries use fortification of certain foods with folic acid as a measure to decrease the rate of NTDs in the population.[9][10] Long term supplementation is also associated with small reductions in the risk of stroke and cardiovascular disease.[11] It may be taken by mouth or by injection.[4]","Potassium sorbate is the potassium salt of sorbic acid, chemical formula CH3CH=CH−CH=CH−CO2K. It is a white salt that is very soluble in water (58.2% at 20 °C). It is primarily used as a food preservative (E number 202).[4] Potassium sorbate is effective in a variety of applications including food, wine, and personal-care products. While sorbic acid is naturally occurring in some berries, virtually all of the world's production of sorbic acid, from which potassium sorbate is derived, is manufactured synthetically.","Myo-Inositol is naturally present in a variety of foods, although tables of food composition do not always distinguish between lecithin, the bioavailable form, and the unavailable phytate form in grains.[31] Foods containing the highest concentrations of myo-inositol (including its compounds) include fruits, beans, grains, and nuts.[31] Beans and grains, however, contain large amounts of phytate.","Caramel color or caramel coloring is a water-soluble food coloring. It is made by heat treatment of carbohydrates, in general in the presence of acids, alkalis, or salts, in a process called caramelization. It is more fully oxidized than caramel candy, and has an odor of burnt sugar and a somewhat bitter taste. Its color ranges from pale yellow to amber to dark brown.","Corn syrup is a food syrup which is made from the starch of corn (called maize in some countries) and contains varying amounts of maltose and higher oligosaccharides, depending on the grade. Corn syrup, also known as glucose syrup to confectioners, is used in foods to soften texture, add volume, prevent crystallization of sugar, and enhance flavor. Corn syrup is distinct from high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), which is manufactured from corn syrup by converting a large proportion of its glucose into fructose using the enzyme D-xylose isomerase, thus producing a sweeter compound due to higher levels of fructose.","Sucralose is an artificial sweetener and sugar substitute. The majority of ingested sucralose is not broken down by the body, so it is noncaloric.[4] In the European Union, it is also known under the E number E955. Sucralose is about 320 to 1,000 times sweeter than sucrose,[5] three times as sweet as both aspartame and acesulfame potassium, and twice as sweet as sodium saccharin. Evidence of benefit is lacking for long-term weight loss with some data supporting weight gain and heart disease risks.[6]","Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class.[10] It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug. Unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. There are several known mechanisms of action to explain the effects of caffeine. The most prominent is that it reversibly blocks the action of adenosine on its receptor and consequently prevents the onset of drowsiness induced by adenosine. Caffeine also stimulates certain portions of the autonomic nervous system.","Sodium benzoate is a substance which has the chemical formula NaC7H5O2. It is a widely used food preservative, with an E number of E211. It is the sodium salt of benzoic acid and exists in this form when dissolved in water. It can be produced by reacting sodium hydroxide with benzoic acid.","A preservative is a substance or a chemical that is added to products such as food, beverages, pharmaceutical drugs, paints, biological samples, cosmetics, wood, and many other products to prevent decomposition by microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes. In general, preservation is implemented in two modes, chemical and physical. Chemical preservation entails adding chemical compounds to the product. Physical preservation entails processes such as refrigeration or drying.[1] Preservative food additives reduce the risk of foodborne infections, decrease microbial spoilage, and preserve fresh attributes and nutritional quality. Some physical techniques for food preservation include dehydration, UV-C radiation, freeze-drying, and refrigeration. Chemical preservation and physical preservation techniques are sometimes combined.","Taurine is an essential dietary requirement for feline health, since house cats (and all members of the cat family) cannot synthesize the compound. The absence of taurine causes a cat's retina to slowly degenerate, causing eye problems and (eventually) irreversible blindness \u2013 a condition known as central retinal degeneration (CRD),[69][70] as well as hair loss and tooth decay. Decreased plasma taurine concentration has been demonstrated to be associated with feline dilated cardiomyopathy.[71] Unlike CRD, the condition is reversible with supplementation. Taurine is now a requirement of the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) and any dry or wet food product labeled approved by the AAFCO should have a minimum of 0.1% taurine in dry food and 0.2% in wet food.[72]","Sodium citrate may refer to any of the sodium salts of citrate (though most commonly the third):"],"healthValues":[[0,-0.2,0.2,0.1,0.2,0,0.4,0,-0.2,0.6,0,0.1,0,0,0.1,0.3,0,0,-0.2,0]]}